Welcome back everyone to this lecture on data types.
We've already encountered a variety of data types that we've seen when calling off columns from an existing
table.
Let's quickly review the main data types and sequel.
Since when creating a table we'll have to choose what data type each column should hold.
So here are some data types.
The main one that we've already encountered there is the boolean data type which is just true or false.
There's character data types such as car or care variable car and text.
There's numeric data types like integer and floating point number.
And then there's temporal data types things like date time timestamp and interval as well as timestamp
with time zone.
So we have these generalized categories that we're familiar with and then we actually have data types
within those categories some other not as common ones are things like you you I.D. or universally unique
identifiers which is essentially an algorithmically unique code in order to make sure you have a unique
identifier for a particular row.
Then you also have things like arrays which store an array of strings numbers etc. You can also store
things like Jason there's a store which is a key value pair and they're special types such as a network
address and geometric data.
Now when creating data bases and tables you should carefully consider which data types should be used
for the data to be stored.
And typically we should be doing is reviewing the documentation to see the limitations of the data types.
You can check this out at Post Chris equal dot org slash docs slash current slash data type that H Tam
l. and it reviews all the subsets of the data types that we just mentioned.
So we have the general categories and then we have the particular data types.
So it's an example of what they look like.
Let's imagine we want to store a phone number and we start thinking should it be stored as a numeric
data type such as a large integer.
And if so maybe what type of numeric should we be storing it as just a normal integer a big integer
etc..
So we decide we have this task of storing a phone number and we decide should we store as numeric.
Well first thing we should do is take a look at the online documentation for options and if you go to
that documentation page you'll see a table that looks something like this where you have the name of
a specific data type under the general numerical data type categories and we can see here we have a
bunch of different options.
We have small integers which has a storage size of 2 bytes.
We have integer storage size of 4 bytes big I.A. or big integer for 8 bytes.
We have a general description for these like small range typical choice and then large range and you'll
notice that as you get larger in these possible ranges then the storage size becomes larger and for
a phone number.
Notice that if we just chose small I.A. or small range integer that actually doesn't have enough integers
or digits for us to store a typical phone number.
And then notice we also have other things like decimal double precision etc. These are things that are
unlikely to be needed for a phone number.
So you might be thinking well based on the fact that phone numbers can have extensions or maybe leading
zeros I'll choose something like Big I.A. or a large range integer since it looks like these numbers
are large enough for me to store a full phone number well as I mentioned based on those limitations
you may think it makes sense to store as big I.A. or big integer data type.
But we should really be thinking about what is best for the situation.
Remember we're storing phone numbers so why bother with numerical at all.
We don't perform arithmetic with phone numbers so it probably makes more sense to just use some sort
of text data type like a variable character theta type.
Because you're not going to be adding phone numbers together or subtracting numbers from a phone number.
Once you have a phone number it's pretty much set.
So it probably makes more sense to just store it as a text data type instead of having to even think
about the possible range that is allowed for you.
If you go off a numeric data type in fact what I would recommend you do is always search for best practices
online and you'll quickly discover if you were to just google search how to store phone number postgrad
sequel that it's usually recommended to store as a text based data type due to a variety of issues things
like like I mentioned there's no arithmetic performed on a phone number typically you're not adding
two phone numbers together to get a new phone number and also things to be careful of is especially
when it comes to country codes that leading zeros could cause issues when it comes to numerical 7 and
0 7 can often be treated the same.
However they're definitely not the same when it comes to a phone number.
So if you google search just best practice phone number Postgres sequel you would discover that pretty
much everybody recommends to store it as a text based data type or depending on additional libraries
may use as an actual phone data type.
Now keep in mind there's no built in phone number data type for postcard sequel but you can install
additional libraries specifically designed for that before our use case it probably makes the most sense
to just store it as a text data type.
And these are the sort of considerations you should be thinking of when building out your own tables
and your own databases.
Often just the internets your friend pretty much everyone's already solved these sort of problems already
and there's usually something you can easily who will search for best practices so when creating a database
and table also take your time to plan for long term storage.
Remember you can always remove historical information you've decided you aren't using but you can't
go back in time to add in information.
This goes along with what we discussed during the timestamp and extract lectures.
You can always just remove historical timestamp information but you can't go back in time and add in
more information.
So it's usually easier just to record more information than it is to have to limit yourself for long
term.
All right.
With that being said the main things to consider here is always do a quick google search for best practices
and definitely refer to the documentation to see your full range of options for data types when it comes
to storing your data.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.